README.rst, before:

####################
aiogram |beta badge|
####################

.. danger::
    This version is still in development!

.. image:: https://img.shields.io/pypi/l/aiogram.svg
    :target: https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT
    :alt: MIT License

.. image:: https://img.shields.io/pypi/pyversions/aiogram.svg
    :target: https://pypi.python.org/pypi/aiogram
    :alt: Supported python versions

.. image:: https://img.shields.io/badge/Telegram%20Bot%20API-6.2-blue.svg?logo=telegram
    :target: https://core.telegram.org/bots/api
    :alt: Telegram Bot API

.. image:: https://github.com/aiogram/aiogram/workflows/Tests/badge.svg?branch=dev-3.x
    :target: https://github.com/aiogram/aiogram/actions
    :alt: Tests

.. image:: https://img.shields.io/pypi/v/aiogram.svg
    :target: https://pypi.python.org/pypi/aiogram
    :alt: PyPi Package Version

.. image:: https://img.shields.io/pypi/status/aiogram.svg
    :target: https://pypi.python.org/pypi/aiogram
    :alt: PyPi status

.. image:: https://img.shields.io/pypi/dm/aiogram.svg
    :target: https://pypi.python.org/pypi/aiogram
    :alt: Downloads

.. image:: https://img.shields.io/badge/telegram-aiogram-blue.svg
    :target: https://t.me/aiogram_live
    :alt: [Telegram] aiogram live

.. image:: https://img.shields.io/codecov/c/github/aiogram/aiogram?style=flat-square
    :target: https://app.codecov.io/gh/aiogram/aiogram
    :alt: Codecov

**aiogram** is a modern and fully asynchronous framework for
`Telegram Bot API <https://core.telegram.org/bots/api>`_ written in Python 3.8 using
`asyncio <https://docs.python.org/3/library/asyncio.html>`_ and
`aiohttp <https://github.com/aio-libs/aiohttp>`_.

Make your bots faster and more powerful!

.. danger::

    **Breaking News:**

    *aiogram* 3.0 has breaking changes.

    It breaks backward compatibility by introducing new breaking changes!

Features
========

- Asynchronous (`asyncio docs <https://docs.python.org/3/library/asyncio.html>`_, :pep:`492`)
- Has type hints (:pep:`484`) and can be used with `mypy <http://mypy-lang.org/>`_
- Supports `PyPy <https://www.pypy.org/>`_
- Supports `Telegram Bot API 5.3 <https://core.telegram.org/bots/api>`_
- Telegram Bot API integration code was `autogenerated <https://github.com/aiogram/tg-codegen>`_ and can be easily re-generated when API gets updated
- Updates router (Blueprints)
- Has Finite State Machine
- Middlewares (incoming updates and API calls)
- Provides `Replies into Webhook <https://core.telegram.org/bots/faq#how-can-i-make-requests-in-response-to-updates>`_
- Integrated I18n/L10n support with GNU Gettext (or Fluent)

.. warning::

    It is strongly advised that you have prior experience working
    with `asyncio <https://docs.python.org/3/library/asyncio.html>`_
    before beginning to use **aiogram**.

    If you have any questions, you can visit our community chats on Telegram:

    - 🇺🇸 `@aiogram <https://t.me/aiogram>`_
    - 🇺🇦 `@aiogramua <https://t.me/aiogramua>`_
    - 🇺🇿 `@aiogram_uz <https://t.me/aiogram_uz>`_
    - 🇰🇿 `@aiogram_kz <https://t.me/aiogram_kz>`_
    - 🇷🇺 `@aiogram_ru <https://t.me/aiogram_ru>`_
    - 🇮🇷 `@aiogram_fa <https://t.me/aiogram_fa>`_
    - 🇮🇹 `@aiogram_it <https://t.me/aiogram_it>`_
    - 🇧🇷 `@aiogram_br <https://t.me/aiogram_br>`_


.. |beta badge| image:: https://img.shields.io/badge/-beta-orange
  :alt: Beta badge

Commit message:

Remove filters factory, introduce docs translation (#978)
* Rewrite filters

* Update README.rst

* Fixed tests

* Small optimization of the Text filter (TY to @bomzheg)

* Remove dataclass slots argument in due to the only Python 3.10 has an slots argument

* Fixed mypy

* Update tests

* Disable Python 3.11

* Fixed #1013: Empty mention should be None instead of empty string.

* Added #990 to the changelog

* Added #942 to the changelog

* Fixed coverage

* Update poetry and dependencies

* Fixed mypy

* Remove deprecated code

* Added more tests, update pyproject.toml

* Partial update docs

* Added initial Docs translation files

* Added more changes

* Added log message when connection is established in polling process

* Fixed action

* Disable lint for PyPy

* Added changelog for docs translation

README.rst, after:

####################
aiogram |beta badge|
####################

.. danger::
    This version is still in development!

.. image:: https://img.shields.io/pypi/l/aiogram.svg
    :target: https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT
    :alt: MIT License

.. image:: https://img.shields.io/pypi/pyversions/aiogram.svg
    :target: https://pypi.python.org/pypi/aiogram
    :alt: Supported python versions

.. image:: https://img.shields.io/badge/Telegram%20Bot%20API-6.2-blue.svg?logo=telegram
    :target: https://core.telegram.org/bots/api
    :alt: Telegram Bot API

.. image:: https://github.com/aiogram/aiogram/workflows/Tests/badge.svg?branch=dev-3.x
    :target: https://github.com/aiogram/aiogram/actions
    :alt: Tests

.. image:: https://img.shields.io/pypi/v/aiogram.svg
    :target: https://pypi.python.org/pypi/aiogram
    :alt: PyPi Package Version

.. image:: https://img.shields.io/pypi/status/aiogram.svg
    :target: https://pypi.python.org/pypi/aiogram
    :alt: PyPi status

.. image:: https://img.shields.io/pypi/dm/aiogram.svg
    :target: https://pypi.python.org/pypi/aiogram
    :alt: Downloads

.. image:: https://img.shields.io/badge/telegram-aiogram-blue.svg
    :target: https://t.me/aiogram_live
    :alt: [Telegram] aiogram live

.. image:: https://img.shields.io/codecov/c/github/aiogram/aiogram?style=flat-square
    :target: https://app.codecov.io/gh/aiogram/aiogram
    :alt: Codecov

**aiogram** is a modern and fully asynchronous framework for
`Telegram Bot API <https://core.telegram.org/bots/api>`_ written in Python 3.8 using
`asyncio <https://docs.python.org/3/library/asyncio.html>`_ and
`aiohttp <https://github.com/aio-libs/aiohttp>`_.

Make your bots faster and more powerful!

.. danger::

    **Breaking News:**

    *aiogram* 3.0 has breaking changes.

    It breaks backward compatibility by introducing new breaking changes!

Features
========

- Asynchronous (`asyncio docs <https://docs.python.org/3/library/asyncio.html>`_, :pep:`492`)
- Has type hints (:pep:`484`) and can be used with `mypy <http://mypy-lang.org/>`_
- Supports `PyPy <https://www.pypy.org/>`_
- Supports `Telegram Bot API 6.3 <https://core.telegram.org/bots/api>`_ and gets fast updates to the latest versions of the Bot API
- Telegram Bot API integration code was `autogenerated <https://github.com/aiogram/tg-codegen>`_ and can be easily re-generated when API gets updated
- Updates router (Blueprints)
- Has Finite State Machine
- Uses powerful :ref:`magic filters <magic-filters>`
- Middlewares (incoming updates and API calls)
- Provides `Replies into Webhook <https://core.telegram.org/bots/faq#how-can-i-make-requests-in-response-to-updates>`_
- Integrated I18n/L10n support with GNU Gettext (or Fluent)


.. warning::

    It is strongly advised that you have prior experience working
    with `asyncio <https://docs.python.org/3/library/asyncio.html>`_
    before beginning to use **aiogram**.

    If you have any questions, you can visit our community chats on Telegram:

    - 🇺🇸 `@aiogram <https://t.me/aiogram>`_
    - 🇺🇦 `@aiogramua <https://t.me/aiogramua>`_
    - 🇺🇿 `@aiogram_uz <https://t.me/aiogram_uz>`_
    - 🇰🇿 `@aiogram_kz <https://t.me/aiogram_kz>`_
    - 🇷🇺 `@aiogram_ru <https://t.me/aiogram_ru>`_
    - 🇮🇷 `@aiogram_fa <https://t.me/aiogram_fa>`_
    - 🇮🇹 `@aiogram_it <https://t.me/aiogram_it>`_
    - 🇧🇷 `@aiogram_br <https://t.me/aiogram_br>`_


.. |beta badge| image:: https://img.shields.io/badge/-beta-orange
  :alt: Beta badge
