docs/dispatcher/filters/index.rst, before:

================
Filtering events
================

Filters is needed for routing updates to the specific handler.
Searching of handler is always stops on first match set of filters are pass.

*aiogram* has some builtin useful filters.

Builtin filters
===============

Here is list of builtin filters:

.. toctree::
    :maxdepth: 1

    command
    content_types
    text
    chat_member_updated
    exception
    magic_filters
    magic_data
    callback_data

Own filters specification
=========================

Filters can be:

- Asynchronous function (:code:`async def my_filter(*args, **kwargs): pass`)

- Synchronous function (:code:`def my_filter(*args, **kwargs): pass`)

- Anonymous function (:code:`lambda event: True`)

- Any awaitable object

- Subclass of :class:`aiogram.filters.base.BaseFilter`

- Instances of :ref:`MagicFilter <magic-filters>`

Filters should return bool or dict.
If the dictionary is passed as result of filter - resulted data will be propagated to the next
filters and handler as keywords arguments.

Writing bound filters
=====================

.. autoclass:: aiogram.filters.base.BaseFilter
    :members: __call__
    :member-order: bysource
    :undoc-members: False

For example if you need to make simple text filter:

.. code-block:: python

    from aiogram.filters import BaseFilter


    class MyText(BaseFilter):
        my_text: str

        async def __call__(self, message: Message) -> bool:
            return message.text == self.my_text


    router.message.bind_filter(MyText)

    @router.message(my_text="hello")
    async def my_handler(message: Message): ...

.. note::

    Bound filters is always recursive propagates to the nested routers but will be available
    in nested routers only after attaching routers so that's mean you will need to
    include routers before registering handlers.

Resolving filters with default value
====================================

Bound Filters with only default arguments will be automatically applied with default values
to each handler in the router and nested routers to which this filter is bound.

For example, although we do not specify :code:`chat_type` in the handler filters,
but since the filter has a default value, the filter will be applied to the handler
with a default value :code:`private`:

.. code-block:: python

    class ChatType(BaseFilter):
        chat_type: str = "private"

        async def __call__(self, message: Message , event_chat: Chat) -> bool:
            if event_chat:
                return event_chat.type == chat_type
            else:
                return False


    router.message.bind_filter(ChatType)

    @router.message()
    async def my_handler(message: Message): ...

Commit message:

Deprecate filters factory (#976)
* Deprecate filters factory

* Added changelog

* Update filters usage in docs and examples

docs/dispatcher/filters/index.rst, after:

================
Filtering events
================


.. danger::

    Note that the design of filters will be changed in 3.0b5

    `Read more >> <https://github.com/aiogram/aiogram/issues/942>`_

Filters is needed for routing updates to the specific handler.
Searching of handler is always stops on first match set of filters are pass.

*aiogram* has some builtin useful filters.

Builtin filters
===============

Here is list of builtin filters:

.. toctree::
    :maxdepth: 1

    command
    content_types
    text
    chat_member_updated
    exception
    magic_filters
    magic_data
    callback_data

Own filters specification
=========================

Filters can be:

- Asynchronous function (:code:`async def my_filter(*args, **kwargs): pass`)

- Synchronous function (:code:`def my_filter(*args, **kwargs): pass`)

- Anonymous function (:code:`lambda event: True`)

- Any awaitable object

- Subclass of :class:`aiogram.filters.base.BaseFilter`

- Instances of :ref:`MagicFilter <magic-filters>`

Filters should return bool or dict.
If the dictionary is passed as result of filter - resulted data will be propagated to the next
filters and handler as keywords arguments.

Writing bound filters
=====================

.. autoclass:: aiogram.filters.base.BaseFilter
    :members: __call__
    :member-order: bysource
    :undoc-members: False

For example if you need to make simple text filter:

.. code-block:: python

    from aiogram.filters import BaseFilter


    class MyText(BaseFilter):
        my_text: str

        async def __call__(self, message: Message) -> bool:
            return message.text == self.my_text


    router.message.bind_filter(MyText)

    @router.message(my_text="hello")
    async def my_handler(message: Message): ...

.. note::

    Bound filters is always recursive propagates to the nested routers but will be available
    in nested routers only after attaching routers so that's mean you will need to
    include routers before registering handlers.

Resolving filters with default value
====================================

Bound Filters with only default arguments will be automatically applied with default values
to each handler in the router and nested routers to which this filter is bound.

For example, although we do not specify :code:`chat_type` in the handler filters,
but since the filter has a default value, the filter will be applied to the handler
with a default value :code:`private`:

.. code-block:: python

    class ChatType(BaseFilter):
        chat_type: str = "private"

        async def __call__(self, message: Message , event_chat: Chat) -> bool:
            if event_chat:
                return event_chat.type == chat_type
            else:
                return False


    router.message.bind_filter(ChatType)

    @router.message()
    async def my_handler(message: Message): ...
