docs/contributing.rst, before:

============
Contributing
============

You're welcome to contribute to aiogram!

*aiogram* is an open-source project, and anyone can contribute to it in any possible way


Developing
==========

Before making any changes in the framework code, it is necessary to fork the project and clone
the project to your PC and know how to do a pull-request.

How to work with pull-request you can read in the `GitHub docs <https://docs.github.com/en/pull-requests/collaborating-with-pull-requests/proposing-changes-to-your-work-with-pull-requests/creating-a-pull-request>`_

Also in due to this project is written in Python, you will need Python to be installed
(is recommended to use latest Python versions, but any version starting from 3.8 can be used)


Use virtualenv
--------------

You can create a virtual environment in a directory using :code:`venv` module (it should be pre-installed by default):

.. code-block::bash

    python -m venv .venv

This action will create a :code:`.venv` directory with the Python binaries and then you will
be able to install packages into that isolated environment.


Activate the environment
------------------------

Linux/ macOS:

.. code-block:: bash

    source .venv/bin/activate

Windows PoweShell

.. code-block:: powershell

    .\.venv\Scripts\Activate.ps1

To check it worked, use described command, it should show the :code:`pip` location inside
the isolated environment

Linux, macOS:

.. code-block::

    which pip

Windows PowerShell

.. code-block::

    Get-Command pip

Also make you shure you have the latest pip version in your virtual environment to avoid
errors on next steps:

.. code-block::

    python -m pip install --upgrade pip


Setup project
-------------

After activating the environment install `aiogram` from sources and their dependencies:

.. code-block:: bash

    pip install -e .[dev,test,docs,fast,redis,proxy,i18n]

It will install :code:`aiogram` in editable mode into your virtual environment and all dependencies.

Making changes in code
----------------------

At this point you can make any changes in the code that you want, it can be any fixes,
implementing new features or experimenting.


Format the code (code-style)
----------------------------

Note that this project is Black-formatted, so you should follow that code-style,
too be sure You're correctly doing this let's reformat the code automatically:

.. code-block:: bash

    black aiogram tests examples
    isort aiogram tests examples


Run tests
---------

All changes should be tested:

.. code-block:: bash

    pytest tests

Also if you are doing something with Redis-storage, you will need to test everything works with Redis:

.. code-block:: bash

    pytest --redis redis://<host>:<port>/<db> tests

Docs
----

We are using `Sphinx` to render docs in different languages, all sources located in `docs` directory,
you can change the sources and to test it you can start live-preview server and look what you are doing:

.. code-block:: bash

    sphinx-autobuild --watch aiogram/ docs/ docs/_build/


Docs translations
-----------------

Translation of the documentation is very necessary and cannot be done without the help of the
community from all over the world, so you are welcome to translate the documentation
into different languages.

Before start, let's up to date all texts:

.. code-block:: bash

    cd docs
    make gettext
    sphinx-intl update -p _build/gettext -l <language_code>

Change the :code:`<language_code>` in example below to the target language code, after that
you can modify texts inside :code:`docs/locale/<language_code>/LC_MESSAGES` as :code:`*.po` files
by using any text-editor or specialized utilites for GNU Gettext,
for example via `poedit <https://poedit.net/>`_.

To view results:

.. code-block:: bash

    sphinx-autobuild --watch aiogram/ docs/ docs/_build/ -D language=<language_code>


Describe changes
----------------

Describe your changes in one or more sentences so that bot developers know what's changed
in their favorite framework - create `<code>.<category>.rst` file and write the description.

:code:`<code>` is Issue or Pull-request number, after release link to this issue will
be published to the *Changelog* page.

:code:`<category>` is a changes category marker, it can be one of:

- :code:`feature` - when you are implementing new feature
- :code:`bugfix` - when you fix a bug
- :code:`doc` - when you improve the docs
- :code:`removal` - when you remove something from the framework
- :code:`misc` - when changed something inside the Core or project configuration

If you have troubles with changing category feel free to ask Core-contributors to help with choosing it.

Complete
--------

After you have made all your changes, publish them to the repository and create a pull request
as mentioned at the beginning of the article and wait for a review of these changes.


Star on GitHub
==============

You can "star" repository on GitHub - https://github.com/aiogram/aiogram (click the star button at the top right)

Adding stars makes it easier for other people to find this project and understand how useful it is.

Guides
======

You can write guides how to develop Bots on top of aiogram and publish it into YouTube, Medium,
GitHub Books, any Courses platform or any other platform that you know.

This will help more people learn about the framework and learn how to use it


Take answers
============

The developers is always asks for any question in our chats or any other platforms like GitHub Discussions,
StackOverflow and others, feel free to answer to this questions.

Funding
=======

The development of the project is free and not financed by commercial organizations,
it is my personal initiative (`@JRootJunior <https://t.me/JRootJunior>`_) and
I am engaged in the development of the project in my free time.

So, if you want to financially support the project, or, for example, give me a pizza or a beer,
you can do it on `OpenCollective <https://opencollective.com/aiogram>`_.

Commit message:

Add contributing support for zsh and win (#1272)
* fix: add support for zsh and win

* docs: add both install commands (win,lin,mac)

* fix: some typos

* docs: update win cmd examples

docs/contributing.rst, after:

============
Contributing
============

You're welcome to contribute to aiogram!

*aiogram* is an open-source project, and anyone can contribute to it in any possible way


Developing
==========

Before making any changes in the framework code, it is necessary to fork the project and clone
the project to your PC and know how to do a pull-request.

How to work with pull-request you can read in the `GitHub docs <https://docs.github.com/en/pull-requests/collaborating-with-pull-requests/proposing-changes-to-your-work-with-pull-requests/creating-a-pull-request>`_

Also in due to this project is written in Python, you will need Python to be installed
(is recommended to use latest Python versions, but any version starting from 3.8 can be used)


Use virtualenv
--------------

You can create a virtual environment in a directory using :code:`venv` module (it should be pre-installed by default):

.. code-block::bash

    python -m venv .venv

This action will create a :code:`.venv` directory with the Python binaries and then you will
be able to install packages into that isolated environment.


Activate the environment
------------------------

Linux / macOS:

.. code-block:: bash

    source .venv/bin/activate

Windows cmd

.. code-block:: text

    .\.venv\Scripts\activate

Windows PowerShell

.. code-block:: powershell

    .\.venv\Scripts\activate.ps1

To check it worked, use described command, it should show the :code:`pip` version and location
inside the isolated environment

.. code-block::

    pip -V


Also make sure you have the latest pip version in your virtual environment to avoid
errors on next steps:

.. code-block::

    python -m pip install --upgrade pip


Setup project
-------------

After activating the environment install `aiogram` from sources and their dependencies.

Linux / macOS:

.. code-block:: bash

    pip install -e ."[dev,test,docs,fast,redis,proxy,i18n]"

Windows:

.. code-block:: bash

    pip install -e .[dev,test,docs,fast,redis,proxy,i18n]

It will install :code:`aiogram` in editable mode into your virtual environment and all dependencies.

Making changes in code
----------------------

At this point you can make any changes in the code that you want, it can be any fixes,
implementing new features or experimenting.


Format the code (code-style)
----------------------------

Note that this project is Black-formatted, so you should follow that code-style,
too be sure You're correctly doing this let's reformat the code automatically:

.. code-block:: bash

    black aiogram tests examples
    isort aiogram tests examples


Run tests
---------

All changes should be tested:

.. code-block:: bash

    pytest tests

Also if you are doing something with Redis-storage, you will need to test everything works with Redis:

.. code-block:: bash

    pytest --redis redis://<host>:<port>/<db> tests

Docs
----

We are using `Sphinx` to render docs in different languages, all sources located in `docs` directory,
you can change the sources and to test it you can start live-preview server and look what you are doing:

.. code-block:: bash

    sphinx-autobuild --watch aiogram/ docs/ docs/_build/


Docs translations
-----------------

Translation of the documentation is very necessary and cannot be done without the help of the
community from all over the world, so you are welcome to translate the documentation
into different languages.

Before start, let's up to date all texts:

.. code-block:: bash

    cd docs
    make gettext
    sphinx-intl update -p _build/gettext -l <language_code>

Change the :code:`<language_code>` in example below to the target language code, after that
you can modify texts inside :code:`docs/locale/<language_code>/LC_MESSAGES` as :code:`*.po` files
by using any text-editor or specialized utilites for GNU Gettext,
for example via `poedit <https://poedit.net/>`_.

To view results:

.. code-block:: bash

    sphinx-autobuild --watch aiogram/ docs/ docs/_build/ -D language=<language_code>


Describe changes
----------------

Describe your changes in one or more sentences so that bot developers know what's changed
in their favorite framework - create `<code>.<category>.rst` file and write the description.

:code:`<code>` is Issue or Pull-request number, after release link to this issue will
be published to the *Changelog* page.

:code:`<category>` is a changes category marker, it can be one of:

- :code:`feature` - when you are implementing new feature
- :code:`bugfix` - when you fix a bug
- :code:`doc` - when you improve the docs
- :code:`removal` - when you remove something from the framework
- :code:`misc` - when changed something inside the Core or project configuration

If you have troubles with changing category feel free to ask Core-contributors to help with choosing it.

Complete
--------

After you have made all your changes, publish them to the repository and create a pull request
as mentioned at the beginning of the article and wait for a review of these changes.


Star on GitHub
==============

You can "star" repository on GitHub - https://github.com/aiogram/aiogram (click the star button at the top right)

Adding stars makes it easier for other people to find this project and understand how useful it is.

Guides
======

You can write guides how to develop Bots on top of aiogram and publish it into YouTube, Medium,
GitHub Books, any Courses platform or any other platform that you know.

This will help more people learn about the framework and learn how to use it


Take answers
============

The developers is always asks for any question in our chats or any other platforms like GitHub Discussions,
StackOverflow and others, feel free to answer to this questions.

Funding
=======

The development of the project is free and not financed by commercial organizations,
it is my personal initiative (`@JRootJunior <https://t.me/JRootJunior>`_) and
I am engaged in the development of the project in my free time.

So, if you want to financially support the project, or, for example, give me a pizza or a beer,
you can do it on `OpenCollective <https://opencollective.com/aiogram>`_.
